- [Narrator] Now let's understand
how is the session ID exchanged through cookies.
Firstly, what are cookies?
Cookies are small pieces of bits of information
that are stored in the browser software.
They could be information pertaining to the user
or the application, et cetera.
So let's understand how is a session ID generated
and then how is it exchanged
between the client and server via these cookies.
Let's say the client comes in with the first request.
Now the server will understand that is a new user
because it did not receive any session ID
from the client.
So it will generate a new session ID
for this new user.
After that, it creates an object of the cookie class.
Cookie is an API available to you
under the servlet's specification.
Once it creates an instance of the cookie,
the server is going to stuff that session ID
into the cookie object
and write it as a part of the response.
If you recall in one of our previous videos,
when we saw the HTTP servlet response API
we had seen an API call on it
which is called a response.addCookie
which helps you to add a cookie object
as a part of the response.
So that is exactly what the server does,
it writes that entire cookie object stuffed
with the session ID back to response
and the response is sent to the client.
Now let's say the client comes in with another request.
The client while making the request ensures that
the cookie is always going to travel along with the request
so when it reaches the server side,
the server can extract the session ID out of the cookie.
It will match it with one of its already generated IDs
and if it finds one, it recognizes that it is the same user.
Now fortunately for a developer,
you do not have to do this entire tedious process
of the getting the session ID exchanged.
The client and the server are smart enough
to do that exchange between them automatically.
However, for this entire process
to be set up for our application,
we have to write one line of code
which is this:
the entire process is triggered
by using the API call of request.getSession.
This primarily returns you an HTTP session object
and that's exactly where this entire process
is set up by the server.
And thereafter the session ID is going to travel
between the client and the server
back and forth for every subsequent request.
We're going to implement this cookie's demo
in our application.
Let's see the corresponding use case for it.
This is my h+ application.
When I click on the search hyperlink
and search for a product,
and I click on the search button, we've already done this.
We know that the items that are going to get displayed
according to the search criteria.
Now what we are going to do is
we're going to click on this Add to Cart button.
Let me click here.
Do you see that the Items in Cart is now set to one?
Now let me add another product
and Items in Cart is implemented to two.
So basically the same shopping cart's an arrow
that we talked about previously.
That's exactly what we're going to implement
as a part of our application
using session management with cookies
in the next video.